All right welcome back my students.
I'm so glad that you're here today.
We're going to be learning something super cool in that relationship section here.
We're going to be learning how to create a pivot table with the many many too many to many relationship
.
Eloquent.
Now what is a pivot table.
Well a pivot table is a table is a lookup table is a table that we are going to be using to relate to
other tables.
All right.
So now Larabee has a very specific instructions on how to construct a pivot table and we're going to
follow that convention so that way our application works very good.
Claribel we don't have to do a lot of customisation here if we use right convention or right and I'm
going to show you which one it is.
But now let's say for example and we are going to do this.
We want to create a new rules for our users.
Right.
We want to have different rules depending on the user.
So for example for user it would ID number one which could be the admin which is Me of course we could
create a roll over minutes trader and then if you want to be a subscriber we can also create a role
for subscriber for a different type of user for maybe somebody they just signed up for a web site or
something like that right.
That's going to be a pretty cool thing to learn and I tell you right now and many of you wish you learned
this a long time ago but on show and to show it to you right now.
So.
So we have to create three tables.
We have the user say we're already here.
So we're going to use that then we need to create the rules table to keep the rules the name of the
roles and then the third table is a pivot table which is the lookup table and that's going to have the
user id and the role Id right to relay those too.
So let's go to a terminal real quick and create those two migrations and model.
So BHB areason and make model role.
Remember this is going to make a plural version of this word.
All lowercase for the table.
And we're going to do m for Migration.
There we go.
OK.
And the next one is the migration of the pivot table.
So BHP Arty's sin.
Now this is very interesting and we have to follow this convention.
Now what we need to do and where we are going to do.
And let's go to let's go to our migration real quick.
So database migration and this synchronized as you guys probably don't have to do this.
I have a lot of things running and my computers and I work around your percent right now but we can
deal with it right.
So we have this table the rules table right here.
And while we don't have a year what is the migration.
That's what we're going to have.
And we've got the user stable right.
While Clarabell is asking us to do is to put this two together whatever tables we are relating together
to make the name for the pivot table.
So he's asking us to pull users and roles together.
All right so we've got to create a table call user roles right that's where you think from the beginning
right we're going to say a user's rules right.
Well they also want us to do it a little different while they want us to do a singular singular arises
make it singular like this and not only that but order a in alphabetical order putting alphabetical
order.
So instead of being users roles we're going to call a roll user like this.
OK.
And that's because Larabee is always looking for different columns.
A few names like this with this conventual Arbor nose is a pivot table is going to treat it like a pivot
table and we can do a lot more things with it because Larabee already knows about it.
All right.
If we if we follow this convention.
So let's create this migration real quick BHB make artisan actually Orison make migration
to to to to to him rule
actually create users rule rules table something like that and then they flag it creepy and then we
put the name here roll user.
OK Antar that should be good.
They're going to synchronize it in my and your own brawly don't have to do that.
All right.
So as you can see roll user and now what we need to do is start with the rules here and we are going
to say table and this is going to be the name of the roll
string and that's going to be the name.
OK let's say that's all we're going to have on this table here.
And then the rules.
This one here is going to have the user id and there are all the ID.
I hope you understand what we are doing.
OK.
So let's use two user ID first.
And remember the Larabee when we create a relationship in the model Larabee already is knows to look
for the user ID.
All right.
And all ID because we are following that convention of putting everything singular and in lowercase
.
So the role Id like this.
OK beautiful.
All right so I'm going to actually split this into two lectures.
And we're going to do the next we're going to continue in the next lecture.
Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you in the next lecture